
i have a quicktime video. can i convert it to an animated png?

Option 3: FFmpeg (Best Quality & Control)
If you are comfortable with the terminal, FFmpeg is the standard for media conversion. It produces the cleanest files and allows for batch processing.
1. Install FFmpeg (if you haven't already):
Mac (via Homebrew): brew install ffmpeg
Windows: winget install ffmpeg
2. Run the command:
Open your terminal and run this command:
code
Bash
ffmpeg -i input.mov -plays 0 output.apng
-i input.mov: Your source video.
-plays 0: Tells the APNG to loop infinitely (like a GIF).
output.apng: Your destination file.
3. The "File Size Saver" Command (Recommended):
APNG files support full 24-bit color (unlike GIFs), which makes them huge. If you just run the command above on a 1080p video, the file might be 500MB+. Use this command to resize it and lower the framerate:
code
Bash
ffmpeg -i input.mov -vf "fps=15,scale=800:-1:flags=lanczos" -plays 0 output.apng
fps=15: Lowers the framerate to 15 (standard for animations).
scale=800:-1: Resizes the width to 800px and auto-calculates height to keep aspect ratio.
Why use APNG over GIF?
Transparency: APNG supports partial transparency (alpha channels), so you can have smooth drop shadows. GIF only supports binary transparency (pixel is either visible or invisible), which creates jagged white edges.
Colors: APNG supports millions of colors. GIF is limited to 256 colors.
Model
ThinkingThoughts
Expand to view model thoughts



chevron_right
APNG files are naturally huge because they try to save every frame as a high-quality PNG. Unlike your QuickTime video, which cheats by only saving pixels that move, APNG often saves almost everything.
Here are 3 ways to crush the file size, ordered from "Easiest" to "Most Effective."
Method 1: The "Aggressive" FFmpeg Command
You are currently using 15 fps and 800px width. That is actually quite high for an APNG.
We can add the -pred mixed flag (which helps compression) and lower the frame rate to 10.
Run this:
code
Bash
ffmpeg -i input.mov -vf "fps=10,scale=600:-1:flags=lanczos" -plays 0 -f apng -pred mixed output.png
Changes made:
fps=10: 15 to 10 cuts the file size by 33% instantly.
scale=600: Dropping from 800px to 600px reduces total pixel count significantly.
-pred mixed: This tells FFmpeg to compare adjacent pixels to compress data better.
.png: I named the output .png so macOS Preview/Finder treats it better, but it is still an animation.
Method 2: Color Reduction (The "GIF Style" approach)
If Method 1 is still too big, it is because your video has too many colors. APNG supports millions of colors, which takes up a lot of space. We can force it to use a "Palette" of 256 colors (like a GIF), but keep the alpha transparency of APNG.
This is a complex command, so copy it carefully:
code
Bash
ffmpeg -i input.mov -vf "fps=10,scale=600:-1:flags=lanczos,split[s0][s1];[s0]palettegen[p];[s1][p]paletteuse" -plays 0 -f apng -pred mixed output.png
Why this works: It analyzes your video, creates a custom palette of the most common colors, and redraws the frames using only those colors. This usually reduces file size by 60-70%.
Method 3: Post-Compression (TinyPNG)
If you don't want to mess with complex terminal commands, use a dedicated compressor.
TinyPNG is famous for static images, but it actually supports Animated PNGs too.
Take your "too big" APNG file.
Go to TinyPNG.com.
Drag and drop your APNG.
It will strip out metadata and merge similar colors.
Download the result.
Alternative: Use WebP instead
If you are using this for a website or an app, stop using APNG. Use Animated WebP. It looks exactly the same but is usually 50% smaller than APNG.
code
Bash
ffmpeg -i input.mov -vcodec libwebp -filter:v fps=15,scale=800:-1 -lossless 0 -compression_level 6 -q:v 75 -loop 0 output.webp
Safari, Chrome, and Firefox all support Animated WebP.
It supports transparency and high colors, just much more efficiently.
Model
ThinkingThoughts
Expand to view model thoughts

chevron_right
This is a known issue with Medium.
While Medium technically supports Animated PNGs (APNG), their image optimization server often strips out the "looping" metadata or converts the image into a format that doesn't support the specific way FFmpeg writes the loop count.
To fix this for Medium, you have two choices: Switch to GIF (Recommended) or Fix the APNG headers.
Option 1: The "It Just Works" Solution (Convert to High-Quality GIF)
Medium was built for GIFs. They are 100% reliable for looping.
If you simply convert to GIF using default settings, it will look terrible (grainy colors). You must use the "Palette Method" to make it look nearly as good as an APNG.
Run this command (Note: for GIF, the flag is -loop 0, not -plays 0):
code
Bash
ffmpeg -i input.mov -vf "fps=15,scale=600:-1:flags=lanczos,split[s0][s1];[s0]palettegen[p];[s1][p]paletteuse" -loop 0 output.gif
Why this works for Medium:
-loop 0: This is the universal standard for "Infinite Loop" in GIFs.
palettegen/paletteuse: This analyzes your video colors to create a custom 256-color palette, preventing that ugly "dotted" look standard GIFs have.
Medium Compatibility: Medium never breaks GIF looping.
Option 2: Stick with APNG (But fix the file)
If you absolutely need APNG (for example, because you need semi-transparent shadows which GIFs cannot do), you need to "clean" the file so Medium accepts the loop count.
FFmpeg's APNG output is sometimes technically valid but rejected by strict web uploaders.
Take your existing .png (APNG) file.
Go to Ezgif APNG Maker.
Upload your file.
Ensure the "Loop count" box says 0 (empty usually means 0, but typing 0 is safer).
Click "Make APNG".
Download the output.
Ezgif tends to write the headers in a more "web-compatible" way than raw FFmpeg.
Summary
If you don't need transparency: Use Option 1 (GIF). It is smaller and guaranteed to loop on Medium.
If you need transparency: Use Option 2 (APNG via Ezgif) to force the loop count to be recognized by Medium's servers.